Hi, my name is
Sam, and I'm going
to talk to you about an
exciting new tool for MongoDB
called MongoDB Compass.
Compass was developed
with one goal in mind--
to give you a powerful user
interface for understanding,
exploring, and editing
your MongoDB data,
and providing you with insights
into your current server
and query performance.
Let's jump right
in and take a look.
MongoDB Compass was originally
designed and developed
with the intention of being
a full graphical shell
replacement for MongoDB.
Once you've downloaded and
opened MongoDB Compass,
this is the first
window you're going
to see, the Connect screen.
There's a bunch of options
that we can fill out in order
to get connected to
a MongoDB instance,
and the first one is the host
name and the port of where
that instance is listening to.
So I'm actually going to use
one of my recent connections
and connect to this
IP on this port.
I also have the
ability to connect
to MongoDBs that are running
with authentication enabled,
such as a username and
password, Kerberos or LDAP,
or whether they're
enabled with SSL,
or simply I must use an SSH
tunnel to connect to them.
Right here I just have a test
instance running on a test
machine, and I don't have
any authentication, SSL,
or SSH tunneling
enabled, so I can just
go ahead and hit Connect.
Now once I've connected to my
MongoDB instance, what you'll
immediately see is
a list presented
to me of the database names
within the MongoDB instance
itself.
In this case you'll see I
have three-- admin, local,
and MongoDB.
You'll see I have some
other information here,
such as the storage size
of the databases, a number
of collections within
those databases,
and the number of indexes
on those collections.
If I do want to
add a new database,
I can do so from this screen.
I simply just hit
Create Database.
And what I'll need to do
is fill in a new database
name and a new collection
name, and then I
have the option of making it
a capped collection or not.
And when I'm ready, I can go
ahead and Create Database.
And you'll see that gets
added to the list here.
If I do decide that I actually
want to delete that database,
I can do that through
the Compass interface
by clicking on
the trash can icon
and simply typing in
the name of the database
that I want to drop.